This directory tree holds version 19 of Lucid GNU Emacs, also known as
XEmacs.  The specific version is in the file lisp/version.el.

See the file `etc/NEWS' for release notes, etc.

The file INSTALL in this directory says how to bring up GNU Emacs on
Unix, once you have loaded the entire subtree of this directory.

Note that the Emacs installation procedure has changed since version
19.9; you will probably want to read the file INSTALL even if you have
installed Lucid Emacs before.  The new procedure is intended to simplify
Emacs installation, and make it easier to have several versions of
Emacs for several architectures installed simultaneously.

The file PROBLEMS contains information on many common problems that
occur in building, installing and running Emacs.

The `etc' subdirectory contains several other files, named in
capital letters, which you should look at when installing GNU Emacs.

The file `configure' is a shell script to acclimate Emacs to the
oddities of your processor and operating system.  It will create two
files named `build-install' (a shell script) and `Makefile' (a script
for the `make' program), which help automate the process of building
and installing emacs.  See INSTALL for more detailed information.

The file `configure.in' is the input used by the autoconf program to
construct the `configure' script.  Since Emacs has configuration
requirements that autoconf can't meet, `configure.in' uses an unholy
marriage of custom-baked configuration code and autoconf macros; it
may be wise to avoid rebuilding `configure' from `configure.in' when
possible.

The file `Makefile.in' is a template used by `configure' to create
`Makefile'.

The file `make-dist' is a shell script to build a distribution tar
file from the current Emacs tree, containing only those files
appropriate for distribution.  If you make extensive changes to Emacs,
this script will help you distribute your version to others.

There are several subdirectories:

`src' holds the C code for Emacs (the Emacs Lisp interpreter and its
    primitives, the redisplay code, and some basic editing functions).
`lwlib' contains a multi-toolkit library for menus and dialog boxes.
`lisp' holds the Emacs Lisp code for Emacs (most everything else).
`lib-src' holds the source code for some utility programs for use by
    or with Emacs, like movemail and etags.
`etc' holds miscellaneous architecture-independent data files
    Emacs uses, like the tutorial text and the Zippy the Pinhead quote
    database.  The contents of the `lisp', `info' and `man'
    subdirectories are architecture-independent too.

`info' holds the Info documentation tree for Emacs.
`man' holds the source code for the Emacs manual.

`cpp' holds a C preprocessor for use instead of the installed one when
    the installed one fails to distinguish more than 8 characters in a
    symbol name.
`shortnames' holds programs and data files for creating files of
    #define's used to convert long symbol names to distinct sort ones
    for C compiles that cannot distinguish more than 8 characters.
`vms' holds instructions and useful files for running Emacs under VMS.
