Version 4.00 of the EMACS to LISP interface ILISP is now available.
If you have gotten ILISP prior to today, you should get the new
version.  The new version fixes a number of bugs and is much improved
at finding source code and supporting CLOS.  The process code has also
been rewritten to give better asynchronous behavior and a visual
indication of process status.  Partial completion is now allowed on
lisp symbols.

FEATURES:

+Support for multiple LISP dialects including Lucid, Allegro and CMU
on multiple machines even at the same time.

+Dynamically sized pop-up windows that can be buried and scrolled from
any window.

+Packages are properly handled including the distinction between
exported and internal symbols.

+Synchronous, asynchronous or batch eval and compile of files,
regions, definitions and sexps.

+Arglist, documentation, describe, and macroexpand.

+Completion of filenames and LISP symbols including partial matches.

+Find source both with and without help from the inferior LISP.
Including CLOS methods, multiple definitions and multiple files.  Also
works for automatically generated functions like defstruct.

+Edit the callers of a function with and without help from the
inferior LISP.

+Trace/untrace a function.

+Esc-q works properly on paragraphs in comments, strings and code.

+Find unbalanced parentheses.

+Super brackets.

+Handles editing, entering and indenting full LISP expressions.

+Next/previous and similar history mechanism compatible with comint.

+Handles LISP errors.

+Result histories are maintained in the inferior LISP.

+Does not create spurious symbols.


HOW TO GET IT

If you do start using the package, please send mail to ccm@cs.cmu.edu
so that I can keep a mailing list of users.  Any comments or code are
also welcome.

You can anonymously ftp the source files from CMU:
- Ftp to a.gp.cs.cmu.edu (128.2.242.7) or any other SCS machine.
- cd /afs/cs.cmu.edu/user/ccm/src/gnu/ilisp/
  Don't try to cd to or ls any of the intermediate directories;
  go straight to the subdirectory. The CMU security mechanisms
  will block you from accessing any of the other directories while you
  are doing anonymous accesses.
- get ilisp.tar.Z or
  mget README HISTORY completer.el symlink.el popper.el epoch-pop.el 
       comint.el comint-ipc.el ilisp*.el *.lisp

Of course, anyone with AFS access at CMU, Dartmouth, Michigan, MIT, Mt. Xinu
or Transarc can just cd to the directory and copy what they want.
 

ONCE YOU HAVE IT: 

1) uncompress ilisp.tar.Z; tar xf ilisp.tar

2) Read the start of ilisp/ilisp.el for the site and .emacs information.


ILISP FILES:

symlink.el	Package for expanding symbolic links.

completer.el 	Partial completion mechanism for the minibuffer.

popper.el	Standalone module for a shrink-wrapped pop-up window.

epoch-pop.el	Standalone module for pop-up window in epoch.

comint.el	COMmand INTerpreter module used by cmushell and ilisp.

comint-ipc.el	Module to allow Emacs to send to a shell and get back results.

ilisp-ext.el    Standalone extensions to lisp mode.

ilisp-src.el    Ilisp source code module.

ilisp-bat.el    Ilisp batch code module.

ilisp.el	Actual code for the Emacs to LISP interface.

*.lisp		Interface files for specific LISPs.

